Hi welcome back in this video we're looking at creating a stack and a stack is really just identical
to a AQ except it happens kind of in the reverse order or rather the removal or the addition happen
in the wrong place.
So what is the stack as you said the stack is just like a Q but instead of being first in first out
it is last in first out.
What does that mean in a cue when you arrive first on the cue.
You would expect to be served first.
What is in a stack.
It is the last person arriving.
The one that served next.
So if you arrive first you probably get served.
But then if you arrive once someone else is being served you're going to be waiting someone else is
going to arrive and they are going to be served.
And as someone else is going to arrive and they're going to be served so you're never going to get served
unless nobody else is left in me in the stack essentially.
Let's have a look at it visually and in a moment anyway what is a stag do then.
Well you can add elements at the beginning of the stack and then you can remove them from the beginning
.
So whenever somebody adds itself to the stack we are going to remove that person first.
We can also tell us its size and print itself out in our application and remember the end or the beginning
.
It doesn't matter.
Instead of both adding and removing from the beginning we can just add and remove from the end as long
as both operations happen on the same end of the stack is going to end up being the same.
It doesn't matter what we call the beginning or what we call the end.
So in this rigid explanation we're going to be adding at the end and then we're going to be removed
from the end.
So let's first add our first element.
Going to be 15 and then just like in a cue we're going to be adding at the end of the stack.
We're going to be adding 31 of them 1 5 1 and so on and so on.
And then normally with the Q The first element to go with the first one in the queue is 50.
But in a stack it happens the other way round.
The removal is also from the end.
So we remove the last element first.
OK.
So instead of new elements being added and then being removed from the front new elements are added
and then they're removed from the pack.
So once again we add elements at the beginning and they would remove them from the beginning as well
or both from the end.
You can find that size and print itself to add nodes which just make the new node points to the current
head make the head of the stack the new node.
So just like we did with the linked list class where they added to list method would add Nuno.
At the beginning and to remove nodes we make the head of the stack be the second note in the stack.
So instead of traveling to the end and removing by the second to last node we're going to just make
the head of the stack instead of being the hand we're going to point the hand to the second note.
That way we are skipping the first note and it gets erased from our computers memory by Python.
We're going to look at exactly how this works in code and the rest is just going to be the same as for
the new class and the stacks are extremely useful in computers.
We're going to learn that later on we're going to look for an example of a stack in Python itself.
And the really useful.
So it's good to know that they exist and how they work at least to some extent.
So let's program a stack in the very next video and I'll see you there.